
---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "A Journey of Learning"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-01-21
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Programming
---
## Where It All Began
As cliche as it sounds, I grew up with and around computers for as long as I can remember and it has always fascinated me. My earliest interests in software engineering is actually related to hacking. As a young kid, I used to hack a number of games through data manipulation using a software called "Cheat Engine". Although I was just a kid at the time messing around with an open-source memory editor, something about this experience I had when I was young led me to take interest in Computer Science later on. I didn't know it at the time, but I was learning about some things that are relevant in software engineering today, back then, such as floats, addresses, and even data storage. 

## Fast Forward to the Present
Now that I am a 2nd year student at University, my interests in Computer Science have since been refined to things like software engineering, information technology and others. With all the ICS classes that I've taken so far and what may lie ahead for my future, I hope that am prepared for the next class I take and ultimately prepared for the career path that I'm setting myself up for. Although I have experiences in programming with numerous languages like Java, C, and more, one of my biggest goals for the future is to be able to understand a langauge well in a sense that I am able to program and develop whatever my mind comes up with. Now I do know that programming is only one aspect of Computer Science, but I hope to fundamentally know what I'm doing, be able to implement it and to communicate it well with others.

